This song was a nice introduction to a next talk presented by a member of the governing
body Anthony Morris and he will speak on the subject always re-joice.
On a day like today I think you'll agree all of you in this 139th class it's easy to rejoice.
The rejoicing has been going on since the special meal and those nice interviews and
fine job brother Loach did with our morning worship as well as the later program.
So the question isn't will you rejoice today you have your family you have your friends
we're enjoying this rejoicing in the program find lectures that we receive wonderful
experiences it's amazing every time these classes have these amazing field experiences.
The question arises though will you rejoice a month from now?
Will you always be rejoicing a year from now? So when it comes to this
admonition to always rejoice there's got to be more than meets the eye and we'll help you with that
Find Philippians chapter four this is where the talk is based
Philippians chapter four and you may have already gathered that
Philippians chapter four and the complete sentence in verse four always rejoice in the Lord
and then he repeats again I will say rejoice. Now this is clearly Jehovah's thinking about the
matter it's connected with our service to him we are supposed to do our best to always rejoice
now keep in mind he's inspired to write what he wrote here but in the same letter
let's just show you something so you see that there's more here than meets the eye to this
always rejoicing and what does that really mean for us as individuals applying the council
I'll go to chapter one just to highlight here something of interest you'll notice in verse 12
of Philippians chapter one he's discussing his circumstances are advancing in the good news
but then he writes that my prison bonds so he's in prison not conducive to great big smiles every day
prison life is so good so when Paul's admonishing always rejoice you keep in mind too what he wrote
and what we referred to as verse 29 the last part there regarding Christ and our service to
follow him suffering his behalf and I hadn't heard the interviews that brother Fensum
nicely conducted but you can see there's things that come up in our lives you better turn
how do I rejoice through this well Paul's was because he was enduring for his God
and the way we always rejoice in our service to Jehovah our Heavenly Father is to keep in mind and
never forget the universal issue we can't lose sight of that we can't be self-absorbed with
what we suffer and let's just review this turn your Bibles of Job in the very first chapter and
we're going to just remind ourselves of these events
Job chapter one and so loving of Jehovah God to give us what we need to equip us
and I've always been so impressed with how he's really unzipped the heavens here
so that we could look into this heavenly scene what took place and according to verse 6 it's
a specific day the spirit sons of God are entering to take their station now at this point it's been
centuries since this rebel has been in existence with others following him following
priori to the flood and such while Satan enters right among them and I can only imagine
looks on some of the faces of the holy angels but to show you his contemptible nature at this point
you see in verse 7 that Jehovah says where have you come from
and Satan was this utter disrespect from roving about on the earth and from walking about in it
now Jehovah with joy says have you taken note of my servant Job there is no one like him on the earth
he is an upright man of integrity fearing God and shunning what is bad so this totally disrespectful
person this contemptible individual begins to throw out this accusatory question
is it for nothing the Job has feared God have you not put up a protective hedge around him
and his house and everything he has you've blessed as the work of his hands in his livestock as
spread out in the land but for a change stretch out your hand and strike everything he has and he
will surely curse you to your very face despicable they but that carries over to all of us
that are listening including all of you in the class the devil is convinced in his twisted
mind that none of us served Jehovah willingly only when things are going well will they
do what you call your will and we have to determine that we're going to apply the scriptural
advice for example in Psalm 100 and only individuals can do this on an individual basis we stand
before God unless we're talking about toddlers this is our personal responsibility to adhere to
the scriptures notice Psalm 100 and just the eight part of verse two quite direct served Jehovah
with rejoicing say served Jehovah with rejoicing so that's just glorifying Jehovah when we serve him
with rejoicing it infuriates the devil it so be it we want to bring joy to Jehovah's heart now
in the same letter Paul referred to Paphroditus and so we want to be realistic here because in the same
letter where we read Philippians four four there he talked about always rejoice he wrote about a
Paphroditus now Paphroditus fell ill and he became depressed depressed individuals are not known
for rejoicing so let's be realistic there are times that we're going to face
experiences that are going to cause us to become downhearted and that could be a month from now
for any one of us it could be a year but it is coming that's the way it is whether the devil is
going to be directly involved or not we don't have to go down that road just life in these last days
makes it difficult to always rejoice if we're not focused on the scriptural counsel Jehovah gives
because he can change it or give you an example so what do you do I'll turn to Ephesians
and let's read some of the things that are practical that you can do as you face this in the
future Ephesians chapter five and we're advised here verse 15 and 16 to don't be unwise to be wise
making best use of our time well how do you do that well especially when you're be set by all
sorts of negative emotions or a problem that you're dealing with the be part of verse 18 of chapter
five keep getting filled with spirit and then verse 19 it's connected with getting filled with
spirit speak to one another with songs praises to God and spiritual songs singing and accompanying
yourselves with music in your hearts to Jehovah that's the power of music they can change your
move it's powerful so we have sacred songs that you face a crisis my suggestion is get your song book
out put whatever device you're having however you're getting the music and change it
especially of negative emotions are gripping you change it and and really that's a simple thing
want you to try to remember wherever you are depending on your circumstances if you can't
change your circumstances and sometimes that's the case change your viewpoint don't
and only you can do that I'm the only one who can change my viewpoint if it's not
always rejoicing it's up to me individual case by case to make that determined choice now
something that will help because Jehovah doesn't leave us without being equipped very familiar verse
but let's turn to second timothy chapter three one you're very familiar with second timothy
chapter three and you'll see how this is connected with being able to have the skill to change your
viewpoint see verse 16 second timothy 316 all scripture is inspired of God and beneficial for teaching
for reproving our notice for setting things straight and then for disciplining and righteousness
for setting things straight you notice in the footnote or correcting so when we need to correct
our viewpoint get your Bible out the scriptures have the power to correct our viewpoint to straighten
it out like nothing else so we can get counselors we can get help we have friends hopefully they're
using scripture because that's where the power lies the scriptures can change our viewpoint I
like one translator put it for setting things straight for resetting the direction of man's life
for resetting the direction of a man's life so the scriptures have that power and I'll give you an
idea let's see the class two you have your tablets and it's fine some have hard copy some of the
tablets it's personal choice but folks that don't know a lot about their phone and how it works
are the tablets sometimes they get to a point in it it freezes on them what do I do you talk to
the expert and what do they say well have you turned it off lately turn it off and then turn it
back on amazing so get the message you know you can't go four days and you never turn that thing off
and I expect everything to be fine it's just a device so you do turn it off what happened
it reset and they've got a little things that make it reset so the scriptures have that ability
and that power to reset us turn off the negative and all of that pessimistic stuff reset
with scripture and I'll give you an example of one you can use to do that you'll remember this
let's go to Luke chapter 10 this is like pushing the reset button the early computers had these
and when I was first starting with them in the early 80s I sure pushed that thing a lot when I
first was trying to learn it you push the reset button here's an account that can actually change
your viewpoint because sometimes and you could do this you know I'm a graduate of Gilly with
139th class you get to your Simon you're looking for results you want results and that's okay
have good goals but caution so you can continue to always rejoice
Jesus had trained his disciples sent him out you find verse 17 of Luke chapter 10 they returned
and why they were rejoicing just demons were made subject to them because of using Jesus name
Jesus is rejoicing because he sees Satan's demise his future then Jesus gives this profound
counsel it's nice you had all these good results rejoicing with you but let's read verse 20
I mean nevertheless do not rejoice because the spirits are made subject to you
but rejoice because your names have been written in the heavens why that must have just to hear
the master himself say that whoo they got the message see because they weren't always going to be
able to expel demons have these results so he said to them and I say to you don't let your
rejoicing depend on results let it depend on your name is written in the heavens see you have
Jehovah's approval see how you can always rejoice reset your thinking your name is written
in the heavens the powerful yeah but it's true okay now it's quite interesting to me personally
and just a thought to take with you right after Paul gave the inspired direction to always rejoice
in the Lord and he said once more I say rejoice what he says after is quite interesting and it's
connected with being able to continue to always rejoice so let's go back to Philippians chapter 4
Philippians chapter 4 and right after this was what he wrote notice verse 5
let your reasonableness become known to all men or is that appropriate people that are not
reasonable are very unlikely to be rejoicing very much because they their expectations what they
expect it's just not reasonable from others and then they'll do it to themselves
unreasonable expectations of where they should be say thoughts of brother explains excellent talk
come to my you know always thinking about what you should be or could be it's not reasonable
you're not going to experience rejoicing so Jehovah wants us in fact the inspired Paul to write
another letter to the Romans to have our sacred service rendered to him and he did not say
with your sacred service and your power of emotion it's not what the scripture says power of reason
is this really a reasonable expectation and I too strict on myself
beware of that so to always rejoice means be reasonable with yourself see and then enable you to have
proper goals reasonable goals enable you to always rejoice now there's no doubt in closing here that
the Christians there in flip by that Paul addressed these thoughts to they were finding joy
in their service to him because in the third chapter he told him continue rejoicing so that's
what we say to you in this class always rejoice now and you will rejoice forever well we have
received a lot of greetings from other branches congratulations for the students and here's one from
Angola I only read excerpts and also I would like to ask you to hold your applause until the end
yeah because otherwise we'll have continuous applause so among other things Angola branch rights
during the last five months Angola has experienced remarkable increase 101 new congregations have
been formed during the last five months we rejoice with a new peak of memorial attendance of 529
thousand eight 27 in June we reached a new all-time peak of 113 thousand and 39 publishers conducting
more than 500 thousand Bible studies Bolivia writes among other things that they're holding the first
class of a school for kingdom evangelizers and they're very happy about it of course they send
greetings and blessings Bulgaria writes that more than 10% of the publishers of Bulgaria attended the
meeting for those interested in the school for kingdom evangelizers from Burundi the nearly 13,000
publishers in our country conducted over 41,000 Bible studies monthly congregation publishers average
approximately 18 hours in the ministry each month Greece writes our thoughts are with you on this
special day we look forward to enjoying this singular event when it will be available on the JW
broadcasting what a blessing for all of Jehovah's people to be present in one way or another
at such an historic occasion then Ukraine writes during the imitate Jesus regional convention
series in Ukraine 145,612 attended you know what I wanted to say 1,601 got baptized
this includes 8,723 and 68 baptized ones who gathered in the war zone in the east of the country
despite adverse circumstances so other greetings we have received from we cannot read all the things
that they wrote Venezuela Sri Lanka Spain Solomon Islands Micronesia I didn't say Indonesia
Micronesia and Bolivia I mentioned that as Australasia Armenia Canada Central America France Finland
and Haiti India Madagascar Malaysia Philippines Portugal and Rwanda so please accept the greetings
from all these countries what would you like to see the entire class now the 139th class I give you a few
statistics of the class the number of students 15 married couples 16 single brothers 14 single sisters
four average age almost 40 average years baptized 24.3 average years and full-time service almost 19
number of lands represented 31 so now we're going to get to know them a little bit better and also
we'll give out the assignments diplomas I'm being assisted by brother William Malon Fong who is
helper to the teaching committee so we'll start with brother Eme from Haiti he will be returning to
Haiti brothers is the Alexander they will be returning to the beautiful island of Barbados
brother sister Alves will go back to Portugal and brother Athanasopoulos he will be returning to
Greece a practice that name and brother Aves will be serving in the United States
brother sister Aidenis will be returning to Turkey and we just had the interview with sister
Dudi she will be returning to her duty in the Solomon Islands and brother Domingos will be returning
to Angola where they speak Portuguese brother Duran Singhham will be returning to Sri Lanka
and brother sister Hbeste will be returning to Spain brother sister Finchak will be serving in
Serbia and brother sister Francis will be returning to India and brother sister Herko will be
reserved will be serving in the United States and brother and sister Ishibashi will be returning to
Guam that's part of the Micronesia branch and sister Ishanyan will be returning to Armenia
and brother sister Giants will be returning to Australia brother sister Consti will be returning to
Finland brother and sister Lobendan will be returning to Sri Lanka and brother sister Lopez
will be returning to Venezuela and brother sister Lorenzo will be serving in Rwanda and brother
Matsarura will be returning to Zimbabwe and brother Myzinger will be returning to Zimbabwe
but Amanda Lovsky will be returning to Bulgaria and brother Nickerse Lashvili or so similar
will be returning to Georgia so I guess I guess Georgia is on his mind brother Ghanimana will be
returning to Rwanda brother and sister Pratt will be returning to Canada and sister Rai will be
returning to Myanmar sister Ravelson will be returning to Madagascar brother Rzadsvitsky will be
returning to Poland brother Siegel will be returning to the United States brother and sister Stansson
will be returning to Hong Kong and brother Tijunan will be returning to Finland then last
not least brother Tomoyaga will be returning to Romania we'll have one of the students now
read the class letter to all of us and this is brother Teemu Consti from Finland to the
governing body and the United States battle family dear brothers from the very first day of our
rival you made us feel part of your family you took time out of your busy schedule to get to know
us by your loving example you have taught us how to be self-sacrificing how to show true
hospitality and how to humbly serve the needs of others we have enjoyed every minute being
with you all you have truly become beloved to us concerning the past five months we identify with
the words of prophet Isaiah who wrote oh Jehovah you are our father we are the clay and you are the
porter yes we feel as though we have been clay vessels in a porter's workshop where Jehovah God
as the porter has been molding our personalities according to his will by digging deep into God's
word we have felt Jehovah's fingers working on our minds and hearts in the light of Bible truth
Gilead has helped us examine ourselves and enhance our royalties to our God Jehovah and his people
spiritual training has taken us to places in God's word we have never been before
a mountain of gems has been added to our personal storehouse of spiritual treasures
we echo the words of name Maya 218 the good hand of my God was upon me what we have learned
has truly touched each of us deeply we are now ready to do our part to use what we have learned
to strengthen and stabilize our brothers and sisters in our respective assignments
it is our prayer to remain as moldable clay and allow Jehovah to finish our training with one
voice and with all our heart we want to say thank you to the governing body for inviting us to
Gilead for welcoming us caring for us and training us in every good work it has truly been an
underserved gift from Jehovah all we want to do now is praise Ja keep thanks to Jehovah for his
good your brothers and sisters of the 139th class of Gilead we certainly appreciate it the spiritual
gems of this graduation program did we not today Jehovah blesses all his servants including the poor
ones with spiritual prosperity it's just that Proverbs 1022 does not especially refer to it however
the emphasis in the Greek scriptures is on spiritual riches Jesus encouraged to be rich toward God
Luke 1221 or to store up treasures in heaven you Gilead graduates you're not students anymore
graduates you have a cry at riches spiritual treasures spiritual gems during class did you not
divine education enables all of us where the students are not to make others spiritually rich as well
you have the potential to make citizens of your country rich what in whatever country you live
if they would only let you do it for them most of us of moderate means but we can make many rich
as the Apostle Paul expressed in 2nd Corinthians 610 we recommend ourselves as poor
materially but making many rich spiritually as having nothing and yet possessing all things
in that sense we are all the richest people in the world and the paradise to come again the blessing
of Jehovah will make all of his servants materially prosper in addition to spiritual prosperity
we can see that also on the monitors I believe what Jehovah has in store for mankind how thankful we
are to Jehovah the great provider to bless us not only with material things but also with spiritual
blessings in abundance now and into eternity and we wish all the students of
students graduates of the 139th class of Gilead Jehovah's rich blessings when you go to your
assignments to help people to get into the new world into paradise to enjoy the blessings of Jehovah
so if you agree to give the greetings along also with the students when they go home to their
assignments so you could express this there was a lot of interest in this program in various locations
in Canada 482 listen to the program in the United States at Patterson here there were 3956
Brooklyn 2048 Walker 2862 Warwick 3430 Florida for Lauderdale 117 in the Newburgh assembly hall
553 Jamaica 57 Puerto Rico 194 total of 149 in the United States and with Canada
together well we have reached an all-time peak in the attendance all-time peak of 14491
now if you would like to stand we're seeing the concluding song song number 121
the title is encourage one another 121 and it's under the subject or under the theme
of Hebrews 1024 25 encourage one another song 121 and after this song we have Brother Balthazar
Perla who is on the branch committee in the United States and also help it to the service committee
represent us in prayer